Let's build another contract.
We're gonna build a small game okay,
very very small and
by game I don't mean we're actually
gonna build a game we're actually gonna
build like a little part of something,
okay.
And really this is where I want to
actually use more complex types and
do some more complex items.
Now this, I didn't include the code
I can include the code, it just,
I change it every time I type it.
It's kind of unique.
Try to follow along,
try to build it with me.
Build it in a way that makes sense for
you and see how it goes.
We'll keep it pretty defined.
I'll introduce new concepts but
I always find the best way to
learn of course is time in the saddle and
of course what is, the saddle?
Or that's your ID and
the thing you want to write and
of course I don't know if you know this
but I use vim by the way vim's fantastic.
He should check out this car, okay.
Anyway, so the idea is I love the ideas of
RPG's I don't really like playing them I
just love the idea.
They see it just seems so fantastic.
So I wanna build something that
can generate random heroes.
I want the user to be able to select their
class as a mage, a healer or a barbarian,
I do not want classes to influence
how the stats are created.
I wanna be paid of course,
0.05 ETH per hero created.
I should be able to get all
the heroes that I have generated.
Heroes should be stored on the chain.
Stats are gonna be strength, health,
intellect, magic and dexterity,
pretty classic RBG stats right there.
Stats are randomly generated
on a scale of 1 to 18.
The stats are randomly picked and
their amplitude is randomly determined
according to the following rule.
The first step picked should be at Max 18.
The next one should be at Max 17,
the next one at Max, 16, and so forth.
You could imagine that this is effectively
the beginnings of an NFT, right?
You're now creating something
we're going to stored on chain.
It has stats it's random.
Could we create like a trading nature yes,
obviously these are not divisible.
If you make a barbarian divisible
you've effectively defeated him, and
he's dead because he is now in twain.
So, this just makes perfect sense here.
So let's go and
let's actually create the contract.
So I copied the little design things so
we could just put it into the code.
Yep, okay, perfect.
So I'm just gonna copy this nice little
beautiful piece of text here and
we're going to put it into some code,
okay.
I'm gonna go back here, and
let's go back to our contract area.
And let's create a contract
called Hero dot soul.
And, of course do the standard pragma
statement at the top letting solidity
know, you like this compiler.
And then I'm going to
personally paste this in.
You don't have to paste this in.
But I'm gonna paste in
all of these things.
So I can just do these things in order.
And then of course, we're gonna create
our contract, which is gonna be a hero.
And there we go, we are well onto our way.
So the first thing we have to be able to
do is I wanna be able to randomly generate
these things, the user should
be able to input their class,
here are the classes
mage healer barbarian.
So I'm gonna go down here and
I'm going to go enum class and do that.
Now you guys can follow along this.
This makes perfect sense.
Enums are a bit more restrictive in
aetherium you can't assign it the value
you want.
I wish I could do like certain values in
these because I would definitely use enums
more often, but
enums come with a very nice thing.
If you accept enums into a function,
a function cannot be called
with non enum values.
Meaning that if meaning
that major zero healers,
one barbarian is two,
if I provide a three to that function,
it will simply fail because it
did not pass the solidity check.
So that's very very nice right that
actually adds a little bit of safety to
your program that makes it kind
of nice to use these enums.
But nonetheless you can assign at
random values which does hurt my
feelings a little bit sad this really cool
idea and then that's how I feel about it.
All right now I left that out alright,
so there we go, we have the class and
let's create a function that
we can create our hero with.
And we're gonna take in the class class,
and it's going to be a public function.
And we're gonna add this extra
word in here called payable.
I think we can all guess
what the word payable means.
It means that this function
can accept money into it.
If you do not include this
you cannot pay for this,
it's just part of life that's what it is.
Next we're gonna include another
statement right here called require.
Require effectively is like a cert,
it allows you to put
assertions into your code.
But if certain conditions aren't met,
this contract will revert itself
automatically for you and even
provide an error if you would like to.
So I'm gonna do this message dot
value values how much money was sent
to the contract, if message dot value
is required to be greater than or
equal 0.05 ether.
Ether is a suffix to a number that
actually multiplies it by 10 to
the 18 because all units
are fundamentally in we remember that.
So there is no such thing as one ether
there is 10 end of the 18th we and so
this is just kind of
like a little shortcut.
So if they don't send us enough money,
we're gonna say,
please send more money, right?
Boom, we now have the basis of our
first few lines of design, right?
We have three classes.
The user gets to select the class that
comes in, and we want to be paid Money.
So let's go back up here and
delete those two lines.
So look at that.
We're already like flying through this,
right?
So just to make sure that we
are doing the right things,
let's write a test right away for
what we have thus far.
I think that would probably
be a good plan, right?
So I'm gonna go.
Let's erase these two.
Let's erase that.
There we go, sorry,
I have to race those things.
And let's open up a test file.
And I'm just gonna copy it again and
do hero.ts.
Now remember, we always have to
include nomic labs hardhead ethers,
because we want those
additional functions on ethers.
We're also wanting to grab the ether
object off of hard hat fact.
Even though it technically is globally
provided when you run hard hat as I've
said LSPs and things kind of sometimes
struggle with altered environments and so
I just always prefer to
do it the manual way.
So I get the best LSP results.
Alright, let's go to test gas and
let's call it hero.
And I'm just gonna pretty much delete that
whole function because it's disgusting.
Let's just get rid of it look.
Alright, so what I'm gonna do is I'm going
to create a function called Create hero.
And that's gonna do our standard deploy.
I think everybody by now should be able to
mostly write a deploy by themselves, but
I'll do it just in case cost.
Hero equals await ethers dot
get contract factory heroes,
the name of our contract and
then on top of it go back here and
make sure that it's
spelled correctly ethers.
Then we're going to take that and
we're going to deploy it equals Wait,
Hero deploy and
then of course,
await up one more time dot deployed.
There we go.
This function will simply create the hero,
deploy it, wait for
it to be deployed and then we can return.
it's good to kinda go through this
enough times by now you should probably
create a function you can just
require in and do this yourself.
But I always like to do these basic
primitive operations like 10 to 15 times
just so in my own head,
it's just like always at my fingertips.
I don't ever struggle with thinking
what does something happen?
It's just kind of one of
the things that I like to do.
I know it's kind of is can be boring and
sometimes I don't know people like that.
But now remember we're using Chai not
as fun or Mocha or whatever it is so
there is a before function
we'll do an async function.
And we'll go hero equals true create
hero of course await that there we go so
before any of the test run will
always have at least one hero ready.
So perhaps I don't want state to persist
so I can always call my own create hero or
we have the one that will run for
the test, creating and deploying and
communicating with
the network does take time.
So if you have a test that ends
up having like 1000 calls,
this thing will take
6070 seconds to complete.
So reducing the amount of calls you make,
always a good plan.
Since we don't have any state we really
need to keep track of our test right now.
I'm just not gonna worry about so
I'm gonna go like this ,let's see should
fail at creating hero cause of payment.
Yeah, you can call whatever
you want to do async function,
you can even use an arrow function in
there, I will only judge you slightly.
So there we go.
We have this and now we need to call
the Create hero function and have it fail.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm going to do
this you can do it how you want to do it I
forget how to test Chi stuff,
where you can catch errors and
all that I know Jess has a much
better version of said errors.
But we'll just do this e equals error and
then I'm gonna
go expect e dot m Massage,
let's see two No wait,
wait, wait,
includes some phrase to equal true.
I wanna just make sure that I see our
proper phrase, I'm gonna jump back to my
contract and I'm going to yank out that
beautiful phrase please send me money.
And then I'm in jump back in here and
go to the double quotes and
paste that in awesome.
There we go expects this to happen.
Now I just realized I haven't
included expect someone to go up to
the top do expect shy there
we go we're looking good and
so now all we need to do is actually
do the hero function creation.
But we wanna do it without
enough money correct.
So let's do a nice little awake hero
creates hero Is that the name yep create
here we need to provide a class
let's just do zero that would be of
course I think the major at this point.
And now when you call functions you can
also provide additional metadata Add to
that function.
And so that's what I'm gonna do right now.
This is something that
ethers will take care of.
It assumes that that one plus the amount
of arguments is gonna be kind of like
a little option bag that
you can pass to it.
You've seen a lot of option bags before.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm
going to take this value.
Now notice that I call it value.
What is it called right here value, value,
value, value value, right is right there.
It's very obvious.
So I'm gonna set this value that I'm gonna
pass in this is how many ethers I want to
send to this.
You'll use the exact same thing when
you're doing a real contract that you
want to communicate with real money
from saying no you'll provide a value.
And so now remember ethers is in the units
of we so we're going to use ethers utils,
parse Eeher and I would say 0.049999999
like right it's just so close.
We almost made 5 but it's not five.
So I would expect this test
to fail correct because we
expect at least 0.05 ethers.
And so we're gonna take this test.
We're gonna run this test.
And if I've done my stuff correctly,
we should get an error out that has this.
I don't know if there's
a better Chai way to do this.
I hate using Chai, but didn't wanna
get just set up as I said before.
All right, there we go.
So let's go over to here.
I'm going to remove my test gas function,
we don't need to see that.
And I'm gonna go over here I'm gonna
run test test is going to come out.
It's also gonna be lucky enough
to give me all that good stuff.
Now look at what I got here.
Heroes is not this first off, I misspelt
heroes that kinda hurts a little bit
emotionally but on top of it I misspelled
I just totally asked for the wrong one so
let's go in here.
And just to test you guys I wanted to
provide a message where you actually
provide the wrong name and
now I provide the right name and
we can redeploy it and
look at this it works out perfectly.
And we can see that we actually
did fail at creating the hero.
So there we go we have one
of our unhappy cases and
that we can ensure that our contract
always does work at that cost.